Docsp 9570 (#50)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/csfle.txt

specific data fields within a document with your MongoDB client application before sending the data to the server.
Starting in MongoDB 4.2 Enterprise, you can perform this client-side encryption automatically.

With CSFLE, developers encrypt fields client-side without any server-side configuration or directives. CSFLE is useful
for situations in which applications must guarantee that unauthorized parties, including server administrators, cannot
read the encrypted data.

The following is a quick introduction to CSFLE using the Java driver. For in-depth information on how CSFLE works, see
the :manual:`CSFLE reference </core/security-client-side-encryption/>` documentation. For in-depth guidance and a good
overview, see the `CSFLE Guide <https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/security/client-side-field-level-encryption-guide>`_.

Installation
------------

To get started with CSFLE in your client application, you need
- the MongoDB Java driver
- ``libmongocrypt`` bindings
- ``mongocryptd`` if using automatic encryption (Enterprise & Atlas) if using automatic encryption

``libmongocrypt``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``libmongocrypt`` binding is available as a separate jar.

> 

Author: I'm not convinced this is necessary, but I'll make it clear anyway.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Maven
      :tabid: maven

      .. include:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/libmongocrypt-maven-versioned.rst

   .. tab:: Gradle
      :tabid: gradle

      .. include:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/libmongocrypt-gradle-versioned.rst

``mongocryptd``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``mongocryptd`` is a daemon / process used for automatic encryption. ``libmongocrypt`` communicates with ``mongocryptd``
to perform automatic encryption using information defined in user provided
:manual:`JSON Schema </reference/security-client-side-automatic-json-schema/>`.

For more detailed information on ``mongocryptd``, see

> :manual:`mongocryptd reference documentation </reference/security-client-side-encryption-appendix/#mongocryptd>`

Author: Why wouldn't you refer to it as a noun?

Examples
--------

Automatic Encryption and Decryption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following is a sample app that inserts a document containing a single encrypted field. It assumes you already
created a data key and encrypted field schema  in MongoDB. The example uses a local key, but you can also use integrated

> support for cloud key management services from AWS, Azure, and GCP. The data in the ``encryptedField`` field is

Reviewer: Nitpick:
```suggestion
support for cloud-based key management services from AWS, Azure, and GCP. The data in the ``encryptedField`` field is
```

> automatically encrypted before insertion and decrypted when calling ``find()`` on the client side.

Reviewer: Nitpick: probably optional, but I think it helps clarify phrase boundaries

```suggestion
automatically encrypted before insertion, and decrypted when calling ``find()`` on the client side.
```

                               + "    encryptedField: {"
                               + "      encrypt: {"
                               + "        keyId: [{"
                               + "          \"$binary\": {"
                               + "            \"base64\": \"" + base64DataKeyId + "\","
                               + "            \"subType\": \"04\""
                               + "          }"
                               + "        }],"
                               + "        bsonType: \"string\","
                               + "        algorithm: \"AEAD_AES_256_CBC_HMAC_SHA_512-Deterministic\""
                               + "      }"
                               + "    }"
                               + "  },"
                               + "  \"bsonType\": \"object\""
                               + "}"));
           }}).build();

Explicit Encryption and Decryption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The prior examples demonstrated the automatic CSFLE feature. If your version of MongoDB does not offer automatic CSFLE,
you can perform CSFLE explicitly. This method does not use the ``mongocryptd`` daemon / process. The

> ``ClientEncryption`` class provides the mechanisms to use explicit encryption.

Reviewer: I try to avoid "provides" since it might not be specific enough. How about:

```suggestion
``ClientEncryption`` class contains methods you can use to perform explicit encryption.
```

==================================
Client-Side Field Level Encryption
==================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Introduced in MongoDB 4.2, Client-Side Field Level Encryption (CSFLE) allows administrators and developers to encrypt
**specific** data fields and still leverage other MongoDB encryption features.

With CSFLE, developers encrypt fields client-side without any server-side configuration or directives. CSFLE supports
workloads where applications must guarantee that unauthorized parties, including server administrators, cannot read the
encrypted data.

The following is a quick introduction to CSFLE using the Java driver. For more in-depth information, see the

> :manual:`CSFLE reference-documentation </core/security-client-side-encryption/>` and the

Author: Yep, just a typo that didn't get picked up by my spelling/grammar addon (probably because of the `-`). I just chose the name reference documentation, we could just as easily call it anything else.

`CSFLE Guide <https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/security/client-side-field-level-encryption-guide>`_

Installation
------------

The recommended way to get started using CSFLE in your project is with a dependency management system. CSFLE introduces
the ``libmongocrypt`` dependency in addition to the driver.

``libmongocrypt``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is a separate jar file containing ``libmongocrypt`` bindings.

> .. tabs::

Author: Ok, will create an include. I didn't see any discussion around inline vs tabs in the quickstart pr, but could have missed it.

           new SecureRandom().nextBytes(localMasterKey);

           Map<String, Map<String, Object>> kmsProviders = new HashMap<String, Map<String, Object>>() {{
              put("local", new HashMap<String, Object>() {{
                  put("key", localMasterKey);
              }});
           }};

           String keyVaultNamespace = "admin.datakeys";

           AutoEncryptionSettings autoEncryptionSettings = AutoEncryptionSettings.builder()
                   .keyVaultNamespace(keyVaultNamespace)
                   .kmsProviders(kmsProviders)
                   .build();

           MongoClientSettings clientSettings = MongoClientSettings.builder()
                   .autoEncryptionSettings(autoEncryptionSettings)
                   .build();

           MongoClient mongoClient = MongoClients.create(clientSettings);
           MongoCollection<Document> collection = mongoClient.getDatabase("test").getCollection("coll");
           collection.drop(); // Clear old data

           collection.insertOne(new Document("encryptedField", "123456789"));

           System.out.println(collection.find().first().toJson());
       }
   }

> 

Reviewer: Any thoughts on including output or a short description of the post-conditions after the snippets?

   // Create the ClientEncryption instance
   ClientEncryptionSettings clientEncryptionSettings = ClientEncryptionSettings.builder()
           .keyVaultMongoClientSettings(MongoClientSettings.builder()
                   .applyConnectionString(new ConnectionString("mongodb://localhost"))
                   .build())
           .keyVaultNamespace(keyVaultNamespace.getFullName())
           .kmsProviders(kmsProviders)
           .build();

   ClientEncryption clientEncryption = ClientEncryptions.create(clientEncryptionSettings);

   BsonBinary dataKeyId = clientEncryption.createDataKey("local", new DataKeyOptions());

   // Explicitly encrypt a field
   BsonBinary encryptedFieldValue = clientEncryption.encrypt(new BsonString("123456789"),
           new EncryptOptions("AEAD_AES_256_CBC_HMAC_SHA_512-Deterministic").keyId(dataKeyId));

   collection.insertOne(new Document("encryptedField", encryptedFieldValue));

   Document doc = collection.find().first();
   System.out.println(doc.toJson());

   // Explicitly decrypt the field
   System.out.println(
       clientEncryption.decrypt(new BsonBinary(doc.get("encryptedField", Binary.class).getData()))
   );

> 

Reviewer: Similar comment to a prior one about notifying the user that this drops the collection.

``libmongocrypt``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``libmongocrypt`` binding is available as a separate JAR. Add it to your project using your desired dependency
management tool.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Maven
      :tabid: maven

      .. include:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/libmongocrypt-maven-versioned.rst

   .. tab:: Gradle
      :tabid: gradle

      .. include:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/libmongocrypt-gradle-versioned.rst

``mongocryptd``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``mongocryptd`` is a binary run as a daemon / process that is used for automatic encryption.
``libmongocrypt`` communicates with ``mongocryptd`` to automatically encrypt the information specified in a user-provided
:manual:`JSON Schema </reference/security-client-side-automatic-json-schema/>`.

For more detailed information on ``mongocryptd``, see
:manual:`mongocryptd reference documentation </reference/security-client-side-encryption-appendix/#mongocryptd>`

Examples
--------

The examples on this page use a local key, but you can also use integrated support for cloud-based key management
services from AWS, Azure, and GCP. Each example program execution creates a new master key in memory and drops the

> ``test.coll`` collection.

Reviewer: The local master key examples make it difficult to summarize the behavior since it performs the following:
-creates a new master key
-creates a new data encryption key using that master key (meaning it's only valid for that run)
-drops the test.coll collection in case there were any other docs in there
-inserts a new document
-retrieves and prints the document
-leaves as a side-effect: the encrypted document and the data key, but not the master key. Therefore, you can only view the encrypted document as you need the master key to decrypt the data encryption key to decrypt the document fields.

Therefore, we should warn the user that they cannot decrypt the fields once the master key reference is lost. Maybe we can accomplish this by appending something like the following:

"
.. warning:
   In the examples, the in-memory master key is lost when the application finishes running. If you want to decrypt the document fields in a separate run, you can save the local master key to a file and reuse it. For use In a production environment, we recommend that you save the key to a key management service.
"
